---
date: 2023-06-10
description: Yonder Dynamics - 2021-2022
thumbnail: yonder-thumb.jpg
layout: markdown-project
draft: true
---
# yonder 2021-2022
In April 2021, Yonder was holding its annual elections to determine leadership for the 2021-2022 season. With no other members overly enthusiastic about taking up the role of Project Manager (head of the organization), I self-nominated: 

[screenshot]

Soon I found myself as the lead of the team, with little idea as to what that actually meant - “an insane amount of work” is probably the most central theme of my experience in the coming two years. Fortunately, the one thing Yonder was *not* lacking coming out of the lockdowns was intelligent and motivated people throughout all the subteams. Looking back, I am fairly confident that if even one or two key people were missing, the outcome of the 2021-2022 season would be drastically different than how it ended up.
## re-assembling a robotics team
It eventually became clear that Fall 2021 would see most students back on campus at UCSD, and as such I would have to figure out how to actually lead a physical robotics team. I moved back to San Diego in July to try and squeeze some research in before the school year started. During this time I also had to figure out a few extremely minor details about how the team would operate:
- Where we would build the rover 
- Where we would store the rover
- How we would pay for the rover

Even before UCSD went remote in March 2020, the arrangements Yonder had for the storage and build space for the rover were … deteriorating. The rover and all the team supplies were stored in a series of rolling carts on the 5th floor of Atkinson Hall, amid a space that was designed to be an office environment for researchers and administrators at the Qualcomm Institute. Sunday meetings in 2019 often saw us drilling and assembling robot pieces amongst the overpriced office furniture. 

[photo]

I was politely informed by the building management that unfortunately the space could no longer be used as a meeting or build space for the team. Fortunately, we were not evicted from the storage carts - even better, I coincidentally had card access to this same area for my own research. This was fortunate, as the card access I requested for the others on the Yonder leadership team in order to access this storage seemed to always get lost in the system and never was granted.
As this space was on the fifth floor of a building only I really had access to, I thought it probably wouldn’t be the best day-to-day rover storage, and sought something that would be slightly more accessible. One day in the lab, I noticed this clear patch of floor between desks:



One email to the lab manager, and I had the confirmation I needed to reconfigure the free real estate into a rover parking spot:


Upon snagging this storage spot, we quickly realized that the temporary outdoor classrooms (giant tents) staked up in front of this building would serve as the perfect build space. With plenty of room, close proximity to the storage area in my lab, and *seemingly* requiring no reservations to use, they would serve as the perfect spot to occupy every Sunday during our meeting hours. 

[satellite]

After a week or two in this tent we had revived the rover from its deep hibernation, albeit with an unsecured battery flapping in the breeze.

[oct 10 videos]

With some semblance of a storage and build space sorted out, the ever-present issue of funding was alleviated thanks to a generous direct contribution from Thorlabs. This contribution, along with two key programs to fund student orgs at UCSD, seemed like it would be plenty to fund the team for the year.

It was also around this time that we conducted our annual fall recruitment cycle. Coming out of the lockdowns, the student body was itching to get more hands-on project experience, and we had no issues finding more talented members. In fact, even with somewhat shoddy marketing and our inexperience, we had [X] applicants, of which we could only accept [Y].

## State of the Rover

e already had a solid drive train driving around campus, but there are two other key subsystems that were a bit more up in the air. All the missions at the competition except for Autonomous would require an arm - this key manipulator is generally what sets successful teams apart from the rest. The arm inherited [was scuffed] [we knew we wanted to fix it - mech investigated shit while I and the electrical team focused on getting encoders and other stuff working on the existing one] [dedicated a lot of electrical resources towards more thorough design and organization of electronics]

[science module] [previous lead quit on the first couple weeks - claire stepped in and was immediately goated]
